Kong Studio Bundle Documentation (#1996)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/studio/1.0.x/dec-conf-studio.md

---

![Declarative config](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/59e383122c7d3a40f0ed78e2/images/5ea7f7292c7d3a7e9aebbe3f/file-jTMVWOdyOR.gif)

Traditionally, Kong Gateway has always required a database, either PostgreSQL or Cassandra, to store entities such as Routes, Services, and Plugins during run time. The database settings are typically stored in a configuration file called kong.conf.

Kong Gateway 1.1 added the ability to run the Gateway without a database. This ability is called *DB-less mode*. Since not having a database would preclude using the Admin API to create entities, the entities must be declared in another configuration file (YAML or JSON). This file is known as the *declarative configuration*, or *declarative config* for short.

DB-less mode and declarative configuration bring a number of benefits over using a database:

* Reduced lookup latency: all data is local to the cluster’s node.
* Reduced dependencies: only the Kong Gateway nodes and configuration are required.
* Single Source of Truth: entities are stored in a single file, that can be source controlled.
* New deployment models: Kong Gateway can now easily serve as a lightweight node.

> 

Reviewer: I'd move the first gif in this topic here - ideally we don't want to start the topic with a gif with no context.

Author: Eh, let's keep it, few users have commented that they like it

Reviewer: Poor phrasing - meant move it *to* here :) didn't mean remove!

> Now that you’re familiar with the value that DB-less mode and declarative configuration can provide, let’s walk through how Kong Studio's Insomnia Designer can help you go from an OpenAPI spec to Kong Declarative Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you’re familiar with the value that DB-less mode and declarative configuration can provide, let’s walk through how Kong Studio's Insomnia Designer can help you go from an OpenAPI specification (spec) to Kong Declarative Configuration.
```

## Prerequisites

> * [Insomnia Designer + Insomnia Designer Kong Plugin Bundle](/studio/{{page.kong_version}}/download-install)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Insomnia Designer and the Insomnia Designer Kong Plugin Bundle](/studio/{{page.kong_version}}/download-install) are installed
```

> ## Step 1: Create or Import your specification into Insomnia Designer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Create or import a spec into Insomnia Designer
```
Going with spec since it's a commonly used term (including in your introduction)

Author: Works for me 👍

> Start by importing or starting a new specification in Insomnia Designer. Copy the specification you’d like to convert to declarative config to your clipboard. If you don’t have a specification on hand, you can test it out using the [Petstore specification](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/master/examples/v3.0/petstore.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the spec you’d like to convert to declarative config to your clipboard. If you don’t have a spec on hand, you can test it out using the [Petstore specification](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/master/examples/v3.0/petstore.yaml).
```

> 1. Navigate to the Documents Listing View and click **Create**, then select **Blank Document**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the Documents Listing View and click **Create**, then select **Blank Document** from the dropdown.
```

    ![Declarative config](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/59e383122c7d3a40f0ed78e2/images/5ea7f7b22c7d3a7e9aebbe48/file-w8220SsiUi.png)

> 1. Name the Document and click **Create**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Name the document and click **Create**.
```

1. Inside the Editor field, paste the specification you copied in Step 1. You should now see the specification in the Editor.

> ## Step 2: Click “Generate Config” in upper right hand corner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Generate a config
```

> Now that you’ve added your specification to Insomnia Designer, let’s generate your Kong Declarative Configuration. Once you click **Generate Config**, a modal window appears displaying the generated configuration as YAML, along with a button to copy the configuration to your clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you’ve added a specification to Insomnia Designer, you can generate a Kong Declarative Configuration. 

1. In the upper right-hand corner of the editor, click **Generate Config**. 

2. A modal window appears displaying the generated configuration as YAML. At the bottom of the modal, click the button to **Copy to Clipboard**.
```

Author: Very nice 😎
